# Building

The project is divided into two modules, Gen and Server. You can do `mvn clean install` in the main directory to build both packages. Or you can build each module separately. Either way, this will produce an executable jar file at `Server/target/Server-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar`. 
# Starting up

Start Redis:

    brew services start redis

Create a mysql database called pizza
Create a user called pizza, with password pizza
Grant the user all rights on the pizza database

    create database pizza;

    use pizza;
    create user pizza identified by 'pizza';
    grant all on pizza.* to pizza;

If using MySQL version 8+, you'll need to say

    create user pizza identified WITH mysql_native_password by 'pizza';

Launch the application and start by adding some menu items.
This was developed under Java 8 and has been tested running under Java 8 and 12.

# Notes:

**Assignment Part 1: Design Assignment**

This design is in the same folder as this README.md file, called **Part 1 — Pizza Design.pdf**.

## 1. Implementation

This doesn't exactly implement the Design I produced in the Part 1 of the assignment. The biggest change is the menu structure. The design calls for a tree structure of Menu Items. This implements MenuItems with separate MenuItemOptions, in a one-to-many relationship.

### API Design:
#### General
The APIs are implemented with a call to a serve method, which takes a lambda expression that delivers the requested data. This is packed into a ResponseEntity object and returned. I did this to separate the server-related classes from the implementation, so the implementation code does not need to know it's running on a server, unless it has to throw an Exception. Although I didn't bother to separate the implementation into separate classes for this demo, that's the next step. I did this partly because past servers I've worked on have been very inconsistent in how they log errors, return results, and return errors. The `serve()` method, and some convenience methods that delgate to it, is in the `ResponseUtility` class. At some point, I'd like to write generators for OpenAPI to encourage this design in all APIs.

#### Rules for error responses:
1.Return an error response only by throwing an annotated Exception. Exceptions are annotated with the `@HttpStatus` annotation, which specifies the status to return. If there's no Exception for the error response you want to send, add one.
2. Never catch a RuntimeException. If the code generates a RuntimeException, let it pass through. It will generate a 405 error response, which tells us we need to find the bug and fix it. If you need to say `catch (Exception e)`, first catch any RuntimeExceptions and rethrow them.
3. Don't worry about logging Exceptions, unless you catch them and don't rethrow. The UncaughtExceptionHandler will log all Exceptions it sees.

## 2. Implemented Technologies

1. Restful services
1. JPA Crud operations will write to an underlying MySql database. Unit tests use an in-memory h2 database.
1. Spring Security defines three security levels with two roles. The levels are ADMIN and CUSTOMER. The third level is no security, and is read-only. It works like this:

    a. `/menuItem` Menus, which are read-only, and require no authentication 

    b. `/admin` ADMIN role required. Administrative: APIs let you modify the menus and add options

    c. `/order` CUSTOMER role required. For placing orders (Not implemented)

    d. `/login` No authorization required.
   
    * Logging  in requires a dto with a few fields, but only the username and password are needed.
1. Authentication is done using JWT.
1. Caching. The `menuItem` API, which returns the entire menu, is held in a Redis cache, backed by the MySql database. The cache gets cleared when the menu is updated.
1. Mockito. One unit test ('JwtRequestFilterTest`) uses Mockito create mocks for testing.
1. Actuator. A simple health check method is implemented.
1. Logging. Lots of logging is done at the debug level.

## 3. Logging In Users

There is no API for creating new users. The first time you attempt to log in, five users will be created. They are User1, User2, User3, Admin1, and Admin2. Each uses its username as its password. The three Users have the CUSTOMER role, and the other two have the ADMIN role. All users, including guests, may view the menus. Users with the CUSTOMER role may place orders (not implemented). Users with the ADMIN role may modify the menu items, create new ones, and delete old ones.

## 4. Notes:

To monitor the Redis cache, and verify that it's working, use the Redis CLI:

    $> redis-cli MONITOR

 ----

(The rest of the documentation, below, was generated by Swagger.)

# Swagger generated server

Spring Boot Server 


## Overview  

(The most important part of this demo is descirbed in the **Service Implementations** section, below.)

This server was generated by the [swagger-codegen](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-codegen) project.  
By using the [OpenAPI-Spec](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-core), you can easily generate a server stub.  
This is an example of building a swagger-enabled server in Java using the SpringBoot framework.  

The underlying library integrating swagger to SpringBoot is [springfox](https://github.com/springfox/springfox)  

Start your server as a simple java application.

This project requires Java 1.8 and Maven 3

To build:
 
`mvn clean install`

To run: 

`mvn spring-boot:run`

or

`java -jar target/miguelmunoz.challenge-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar`

## Build
This uses maven to build. It has been tested using Maven v3.6.3 and Java 1.8.0_212.
Maven uses Java 9.0.4

## REST API Documentation

You can view the api documentation in swagger-ui by launching the server, then go to 
`http://localhost:8080/NeptuneDreams/CustomerOrders/1.0.0/swagger-ui.html`

Change default port value in application.properties

## Database
You do not need to launch a database server to run this application. I use an embedded h2 database. This is great for demo purposes, because you don't need to launch a server, and it's a java database, so it runs with very little configuration.

## Service Implementations

To ensure consistency in how the services are written, and to reduce the amount of boilerplate code, all the services use a variant of the `ResponseUtility.serve()` method. This allows the service to focus solely on the task of generating the service data, and not worry about creating the ResponseEntity or generating an error response. In case of an error, the service need only throw a ResponseException, which includes an HttpStatus value. There are several convenience methods to simplify this, all of which throw a ResponseException. By convention, all these methods begin with the word "confirm." For example, if a service requests an Entity with a specific ID, and the item may return null, the service should call `PojoUtility.confirmFound(entity, id);` If the value is `null`, the `confirmFound()` method will throw a ResponseException with a NOT_FOUND status, and include the id in the error message.

So a service method that needs to return an instance of `MenuItemDto` would look something like this:

``` java class X {
1  @RequestMapping(
   value = "/menuItem/{id}", 
   produces = {"application/json"}, 
   method = RequestMethod.GET)
2  public ResponseEntity<MenuItemDto> getMenuItem(@PathVariable("id") final Integer id) {
3    return serve(HttpStatus.OK, () -> {
4      return objectMapper.convertValue(getMenuItemFromId(id), MenuItemDto.class);
5    }
6
7    // This could go in another class, to keep the service class clean.
8    MenuItem getMenuItemFromId(int id) {
9      MenuItem menuItem = menuItemRepository.findOne(id); // Get from the database
10      confirmFound(menuItem, id);           // throws ResponseException
11      return menuItem;
12   });
13 }
```


So, on line 3, we specify an OK status if the method returns successfully. We also begin the lambda expression that does the work of this service.

On line 6, we test for null, using the `confirmFound()` method. If `menuItem` is null, it will throw `ResponseException` with an `HttpStatus` of `NOT_FOUND`. We don't need to catch it, because it's annotated with `@ResponseStatus(HttpStatus.NOT_FOUND)`, so the server will use that status code in its response. But the `serve()` method, on line 3, catches it for logging purposes, then rethrows it.

The call to the `serve()` method takes care five boilerplate details:
1. It adds the return value (an instance of MenuItemDto) to the `ResponseEntity` on successful completion.
1. It sets the specified HttpStatus, which in this example is `HttpStatus.OK`.
1. It generates the proper error response, with an error status code taken from the `ResponseException` thrown by the lambda expression. In this case, this is a `NotFoundException` thrown by the`confirmFound()` method. The `NotFoundException` method extends `ResponseException`, as do all the others.
1. It logs the error message and exception.
1. It catches any RuntimeExceptions and returns a respone of Internal Server Error.

Also, by using ResponseExceptions to send failure information back to the `serve()` method, it discourages the use of common Exception anti-patterns, like catch/log/return-null. Instead, developrs are encouraged to wrap a checked exception in a ResponseException and rethrow it, and to ignore all RuntimeExceptions, letting them propogate up to the `serve()` method, which can then generate an INTERNAL SERVER ERROR response.

The lambda expression creates an object of type ServiceMethod. This is a simple functional interface:

```
@FunctionalInterface
public interface ServiceMethod<T> {
  T doService() throws ResponseException;
}
```

The `serve()` method has this signature: 

`  public static <T> ResponseEntity<T> serve(HttpStatus successStatus, ServiceMethod<T> method)`

The only boilerplate code in the example is the `@RequestMapping` annotation and the method signature, both of which are generated by Swagger.

### Sample `confirmXxx()` methods. 
All of these may throw a `ResponseException`. I've adopted the convention that all methods that may throw `ResponseException` start with the word *confirm.*

* `confirmFound(T entity, Object id) throws ResponseException` Confirms the returned entity with specified id is not null. (The `id` parameter is used to generate a more useful error message.)
* `confirmNeverNull(T object) throws ResponseException` Used for values that are not entities.
* `confirmNull(Object object) throws ResponseException` This is useful to ensure a resource doesn't already exist.
* `confirmEqual(T expected, T actual) throws ResponseException`
* `confirmAndDecodeInteger(final String id) throws ResponseException` This Parses the String into an Integer. A better name might be just `decodeInteger()`, but it starts with `confirm` to keep with the convention that all methods that throw a `ResponseException` start with `confirm`.

People have asked why I didn't use the word *validate,* since it's pretty standard. I decided not to use it to be clear that these methods are not a part of any third-party validation framework.

I should also stress that these are just convenience methods. If any developers have cases not handled by one of these, and can't write a simple convenience method to do what they need, they are free to throw a ResponseException directly. Any RuntimeExceptions need not be caught. They will get logged and an INTERNAL_SERVER_ERROR response will be returned.


## Data Model 
### Assumptions

A Menu item consists of options. Each menu item has a price, as does each option. (Option prices may be zero.) An order consists of a menu item and a list of options.

An order may calculate a price based on the Menu Item's base cost and the options chosen. 

When an order is opened, the time is recorded. (I have no idea if that's useful, but it may help in searching.) At this point, the order may be either canceled or completed. If it's canceled, it's removed from the database. If it's completed, it is marked complete and kept in the database.

Orders may be searched by ID 

I'm not sure if my API is most useful for a UI developer. I prefer to ask the UI developers what they need, then build the API around their needs. That said, I have APIs to define menu items, and add options to them. I have APIs to create an order, to add options to either an order or a MenuItem, and to search for completed or open orders in a given date range.

### JPA Entities

#### 1. MenuItem
A MenuItem consists of a name, price, and list of MenuItemOptions (below). The list consists of all possible options for this menu item. MenuItem has a One-to-Many relationship with MenuItemOption. It also includes a price.

#### 2. MenuItemOption
A MenuItemOption adds an option to aMenuItem (below). It also has a delta price, which is the amount the price changes if the guest chooses this option.

#### 3. CustomerOrder
A Food order is an actual order. It has a final price, a boolean to record when it has been completed and delivered, and an order date and completion date, and a list of MenuItemOptions. Unlike the MenuItem, the list of options is all the chosen options, rather than the available options. Also, unlike MenuItem, the CustomerOrder has a Many-To-Many relationship with MenuItemOption.

## Testing
The testing application properties specify an in-memory database, so changes get wiped out from test to test. This greatly facilitates testing.

The Controller classes have public method which are called by the server, and package-level methods that are only for testing. All of these package methods are named `xxxXxxxTestOnly` to discourage their use even if somebody puts a class in the same package. 

## Code Generation
Generated using Swagger 2.0 Swing Server, with the following options:

* interface only
* not null jackson annotation
* use bean validation [^1]
* big decimal as string
* ensure unique params
* allow unicode identifiers

* date library: Java 8 using Instant
* developer name: Miguel Muñoz
* title: Pizza Orders
* library: Spring Boot Server Application

[^1] For an example of how to use Bean Validation, see https://www.logicbig.com/tutorials/java-ee-tutorial/bean-validation/cascaded-validation.html

† For an example of how to use Bean Validation, see https://www.logicbig.com/tutorials/java-ee-tutorial/bean-validation/cascaded-validation.html

### Code Generator Bugs
#### Doubles the path
The generator creates an application.properties file with the following property:

    server.contextPath=/NeptuneDreams/CustomerOrders/1.0.0
It also annotates each API class with this annotation:

    @RequestMapping(value = "/NeptuneDreams/CustomerOrders/1.0.0")
This makes the final path /NeptuneDreams/CustomerOrders/1.0.0/NeptuneDreams/CustomerOrders/1.0.0

The fix is to change the property's value to a single slash.

#### Spurious Optional
When Java 8 is set, it adds an HttpServletRequest member. It also creates default getter for that property and the ObjectMapper property. Both properties are final and autowired, so they can't possibly have null values, so the Optional wrapper returned by the getters is unnecessary.

#### Spurious default methods
When Java 8 is set, it turns on the defaultInterfaces option, which I would rather be left off. This generates stubs as default methods for each api method. There are two consequences. First, failure to implement a recently added interface doesn't prevent compilation. Second, the stubs return a 510 Not implemented. I would rather they throw an Error. (It also takes too much code to return the 501)

#### Logger
When Default Methods is set, the API interfaces include a logger, used by the default methods. The logger is neither static, private nor final. Since it's not private, subclasses will inherit it, making it easy to mistakenly log messages with the wrong class name.
    
#### Date option
When the date library is set to one of the three java 8 values, it turns on Java 8, which is fine, but this activates the three java 8 bugs.
